Today we will see the outcome.
The balance sheet is the basis of
all accounting records, so you
need to be in a very important
class and you need to understand
it very well.
I have already commented on you earlier
in the introduction to the course
of accounting that accounting really
isn’t difficult, in fact it’
s quite interesting.
But we have to build on a solid
foundation and, as I said,
balance is a key piece.
Today, we have two goals.
First I want you to understand
perfectly what a situation balance sheet
is and what it reflects and how
it is structured.
And you should also be able to
place the accounts, the different accounts
in each of the blocks within the
balance sheet.
We will then do exercises
to reinforce these concepts
because it may be a
bit complex at first.
Well, the balance sheet informs
us of the patrimonial situation
of a company, mainly what it
has and what it owes at a specific time.
It is like taking a photo of a
company and in that photo what
it tells us is its patrimonial
situation at that time.
And before I go into detail on how
the balance sheet is structured, I
want you to understand the
implication of what I have said
at a particular time.
This is what we call a variable
stock.
There are variables that are flow
like the state or the result
account, the treasury, which
they do is to represent what has
happened over a period of time.
In the balance we do, however,
is to take the picture.
We are representing the situation
at a specific moment.
I have given these two examples.
A flow variable, for example,
would be the water that has come
out during the tap over a period
of one year, imagine.
And instead the balance would be like
a bath the level of water that is
at a certain moment.
We will build a balance sheet and
then we will understand
the meaning of each of the parties.
The first thing you have to
understand is that the balance has
two blocks, the right and the left.
On the right side, what we do
is reflect the origins, that is,
how we have funded ourselves.
This is the source of the funds.
What the balance sheet on the right
side comes to say is where the
funds we have obtained come from.
And on the left side it tells us
where we have invested, what the
application has been, the destination
of those funds we have obtained.
It has three main blocks.
The origins of the fund are
net assets, which is basically
what belongs to the partners, the
liabilities, which are debts, and
on the left side the destinations
of the investment are the
assets, the goods and rights
that we have acquired with
the funds that we have obtained
from both partners and
debts.
Let’s go now with the detailed
analysis of each block so you
can identify or understand
what kind of accounts go
within each of the blocks.
Originally when a company is created
what partners do is to contribute
money, then we would
be talking that net assets
would be the social capital.
As the company enters into
operation, profits or losses
are generated that increase
or decrease the net
asset.
I want you to remember that there
is a account called unshared profits
to which we carry the balance
of net profits that have not been
distributed as dividends
and that are left within the company,
so they are making increase
year by year, in the case that
there is no-shared profits,
the balance of net
assets.
And lastly, with regard to
net assets, you have to understand
that it is an obligation that the
company has with its partners,
but it does not really have a
return period nor have interests
been generated.
And this is the difference with
liabilities, which well does not
need to go into much detail with
liabilities, liabilities are
the debts we have with third
parties that can be debts either
long-term or short-term.
And there is another part that
I want you to understand well and is
the part of suppliers.
Net assets and liabilities are
mainly financial
concepts, they are representative
concepts of the funds we
have obtained to finance
the activity.
Instead there is a part that is
the part of suppliers that is
a purely operational part.
A supplier balance is generated
when you make a purchase from
a supplier but do not pay the
bill, and a debt is generated
temporarily during that
payment period that you have
with the supplier and
that balance goes to the
supplier account.
Let’s look at the assets.
Assets are all assets and rights
that are owned or controlled
by the company.
The goods are very obvious and can
be of very different types.
You have machinery, buildings, real
estate, patents, you have the web,
you have tangible assets and also
some are intangible like these
I have commented on.
There are financial investments
and in the event that you have
made it active, as the stocks,
the box we have at this time, etc.
I have said that assets are
goods and rights, that is,
also the debt rights, the debts
that third parties have with
us such as the customer account
because it is also an
asset.
I want you to consider the customer
account as well as
the supplier account because
we will see them on numerous
occasions.
The customer account reflects the
balance that customers who have
not paid us on account owe us.
There are two operational and circulating
accounts that are very important
and we will have to understand
well that they are accounts
to be charged like that of
customers we have already seen and stocks.
Stocks are goods or products
that we did not sell at the
time of the balance sheet
and remain within the company.
Previously, we saw that liabilities
are mainly financial-character
items, that is, what we get
with liabilities is to obtain
the financial resources necessary
to finance the asset.
In the case of assets it is
usually the opposite but there
is some part such as financial
investments that we have been
able to make or cash that are
purely financial, are not
directly related to the operation
of the company.
Well here I leave you to finish
a structure of the balance sheet,
the structure recommended
by almost all regulations or
general accounting plans in which
we classify assets into non-current
assets and current assets,
formerly called fixed and circulating
and the liabilities equal,
non-current liabilities
and current liabilities,
but this we will see in
detail in the next class.